docs: add Infrastructure as Code configuration guidelines (#12982)
kyma-project/test-infra: docs/guidelines_iac.md

# IaC Configuration Guideline

This document outlines the standard Terraform configuration and provides guidelines.

## Infrastructure as Code

> The `repository uses `[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) for managing infrastructure as code (IaC). Terraform provides a predictable,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `repository uses `[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) to manage infrastructure as code (IaC). Terraform provides a predictable,
```

safe, and efficient approach to creating, modifying, and managing infrastructure. IaC simplifies:

- Reproducibility of infrastructure through a single source of truth.
- Pre-validation of infrastructure changes before deployment.
- Infrastructure change tracking and history.
- Easy rollback and improved documentation through code integration.

## IaC Configuration Structure

Our configuration aligns with [Google Terraform best practices](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/best-practices-for-terraform)
and [Hashicorp module development guidelines](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/develop), facilitating module reuse
and streamlined testing.

Terraform configurations must reside within the `terraform` directory, structured and named per application or use case. Grouping by
resource type is not permitted.

> For better readbility and maintenance in config definitions must always be preffered over cli parameters or environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For better config readability and maintenance, definitions must always be preferred over cli parameters or environment variables.
```

Author: A phrase `in config definitions` is important, as we want to stress that we prefer data in config rather than in cli parameters. It's not about `definitions` alone as you can't have it in cli parameters. However, certain data you can define in config or as cli parameter.

Reviewer: Oh, ok. Now I get it. I updated the comment accordingly. Thanks!

Example structure:

```bash
terraform
├── environments
│   └── prod
│       ├── backend.tf
│       ├── main.tf
│       ├── use-case-1.tf
│       ├── scanner-app.tf
│       ├── provider.tf
│       └── variables.tf
└── modules
    ├── application-one
    │   ├── main.tf
    │   ├── output.tf
    │   ├── provider.tf
    │   └── variables.tf
    └── application-two
        ├── main.tf
        ├── output.tf
        ├── provider.tf
        └── variables.tf
```

### Modules

Modules group and encapsulate resources specific to applications or use cases.

> These grouped resources compose an application components and all needed realated resources like service account, permissions, or messaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These grouped resources compose application components and all needed related resources like service account, permissions, or messaging
```

system.
Modules must be preferred over raw resource definitions in the environment configuration files.

Modules:

- Must allow independent use in multiple instances and environments (including dev projects).
- Accept parameters for creating unique resource names.
- Use input variables for dependencies or resource sharing (network, storage).

**Example Module Directory Structure**

- `main.tf`: Resource definitions. Can split definitions across multiple logical files.
- `variables.tf`: Input variables defining the external API of the module. Documented using the `description` attribute.
- `output.tf`: Outputs returned by the module.
- `provider.tf`: Providers utilized by the module.

### Environments

The `environments` directory contains configurations for distinct environments (e.g., production).

> Each environment configuration is located in separate directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each environment configuration is located in a separate directory.
```

> Configurations within directory representing an environment, like `environments/prod` can call modules from any locations, even external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configurations within a directory representing an environment, like `environments/prod`, can call modules from any location, even external
```

sources.

**Example Environment Directory Structure**

- `main.tf`: Environment-specific resource and module calls.
- `variables.tf`: Environment input variables. Documented with `description`.
- `backend.tf`: Backend configuration, typically using Google Cloud Storage (GCS).
- `main.tf`: Environment-specific resource and module calls.
- `use-case-1.tf`: Resources or modules calls related to a specific use case.
- `scanner-app.tf`: Resources or modules calls related to the scanner application.

## IaC Configuration Files Format

- `.tfvars` files are not used to provide variables values.
- Input values are explicitly provided via variable defaults.
- Modules and resources must receive variables or other resources as input. It’s not allowed to pass string literals.
- Environments must prefer to utilize modules for resource creation.

## IaC Configuration Usage

IaC configuration is tested and applied via the CI/CD pipeline:

> - Pull request pipeline runs executes `terraform plan`, verifying changes, and publishing results on GitHub PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pull request pipeline runs `terraform plan`, verifying changes, and publishing results on GitHub PR.
```

> - Push pipeline runs executes `terraform apply`, applying changes, and posting results on GitHub PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Push pipeline runs `terraform apply`, applying changes, and posting results on GitHub PR.
```
